## Final Report

State which similarity measure you would recommend Spotify use
for this lyric-only prototype, justify your choice with results
from your analysis, and discuss at least two concrete examples
from the rankings. Briefly note one important limitation of lyric
word counts alone and name information that could make a real recommendation system better.


tfidf        0.210119
raw cos      0.191071
my system    0.189881
raw dot      0.092857


- Best model:

Our results suggest that the TF-IDF cosine model is the most accurate for lyric-only data.
It is the only one of our models to cross 20% accuracy, which is not great, but is the best
when only using lyrics. For our example query song, the TF-IDF cosine model has the best diversity
of songs that are not based on purely maximizing word count. The dot product models both heavily
favor songs with high word totals, which gives an inaccurate idea of similar songs. The TF-IDF cosine
model does a better job of picking out songs with similar lyrics.

- My prototype:

My system was made to try to combine elements from the raw word counts and the TF-IDF system.
My idea was that when the dot product is taken between two TF-IDF vectors, it squares the values.
I thought this might favor the rarest words disproportionately, so I decided to instead take the
cosine similarity of a TF-IDF vector and a regular words vector. Ultimately, this yielded similar
but slightly worse results than the other cosine models. It was able to outperform the raw dot product method.

- Lyric recommendation limitations:

It is very difficult to form a good recommendation system using only the song lyrics. As humans, we mostly group
songs by the way the sound, and what instruments they use. These models could be made better with audio data, or at
least a list of instruments used. Another realistic way to make a recommendation is to use real-world user data, and
see what songs have similar listener groups. This system would not need any information on the music itself, only
what songs listeners tend to select as well.